Character Creation 101: In 6 Easy
 Steps and letters/fractions
 A GM or RW will watch you roll your character. So if you
 want to make a character, read this handy guide. If you find
 you have questions, feel free to ask in chat and senior
 members or GMs will be able to provide you with an answer.
 You must have a member of staff watch you roll your
 character, no exceptions. The format for adding a character
 to the roster is as follows and should be sent to a GM when
 all the steps are complete. Player Name / Character Name /
 Race / Racial Class (if applicable) / Path / Fighting Style /
 Unique 1 / Unique 2 / Unique 3 / Developmental Unique /
 You, by no means, have to go in order of this guide and can go
 out of order, but you must have the above line of information
 complete to add to the roster.
 1) - Choose which race you want to play. Take a look through
 the Racial Charts we have available, a basic guide is as
 follows: Low Races level faster, tend to have access to more
 schools quicker and start slowly/weak. They have access to
 very interesting racial abilities that they are 'known' for.
 Medium Races tend to level reasonably well and specialize in
 a singular field of the game. Though, there are exceptions to
 this. They tend to pick up mid-game and might be weakest
 starting out. Most races are Mediums and can differ from one
 to the next. High Races tend to start out strong and level off
 as they progress while low and medium races catch up. If
 your choice involves a Restricted Racial Class, you must
 write up a background & plan then submit it to the GMs for
 their approval.
 Note: Restricteds are limited this restart.
 Approval should be within the week, but bugging GMs
 about it may see it set back or canceled. A GM needs to be
 able to trust a player with this kind of powerful character. A
 GM reserves the right to refuse an application based on
 several OOC factors. After this approval, or if you are a
 normal Racial Class, copy and paste the racial information
 from the Race's section and paste it in the racial information
 section in your character sheet as normal. As a Restricted,
 you are expected to complete additional goals or 'things' that
 GMs might assign you to do. For example, a Buu may be
 required to have no allies or friends, but may 'use' others to
 their own benefit. They are beings of destruction, afterall.
 This also provides the restart with flavour.
 2) - This is the most important steps of character creation
 mechanically: Picking Your Uniques. You are allowed a total
 of four uniques (Physical, Mental, Personality, Survival and
 Developmental). You may not have more than one unique
 from any category and must have one developmental unique.
 Try to pick out uniques that concentrate on some aspect in
 which you would like to excel. Be it Hand to Hand Fighting,
 using Ki Blasts to destroy your foes, or being lightning quick
 with a sword. Try to pick some general goal for your character
 that reflects on it. When picking Uniques, you should also
 look at what racial abilities / bonuses you get as it can
 suggest what kind of character it tends to be. For example, a
 Jeice makes an excellent ki fighter. This is due to its ability to
 dodge while charging and getting a racial Powerful Ki User
 bonus to Ki Damage. However, the same Jeice would make a
 lousy Hand to Hand Fighter or Sword User. Remember to
 record your Unique picks in your sheet.
 3) - Back to School. All characters gain a Fighting Style
 during creation. To clarify; this is the same school that is
 mentioned in each Racial node and means you only start with
 one Fighting Style, not two. This school counts towards your
 Intelligence / 10 limit. Low races may possess a racial ability
 that gives them a regular school at level 1 with the "low"
 racial stats, so make sure to check for their racials. Uniques
 such as Quick Learner may give you additional schools.
 Racial levels for certain races may also provide free schools.
 As you acquire Schools during the course of play, you may
 find you have reached your limits. You can only learn a
 number of schools not exceeding your Intelligence/10, unless
 your race or a unique states otherwise. You can find Schools
 under Chapter 4: Schools, Section 1: Regular Schools.
 4) It's all in the name. Maybe. Kinda. Not really. At this point,
 you might've already picked out a Character name, which is
 quite important and needs to be considered before you
 submit to a GM. We can't add to the roster without it! It
 doesn't have to be a name from the Dragon Ball verse, so
 long as it's sensible and you like it. Nor does it have to be
 Japanese or any other nationality, really. Can be from Space
 Australia if you really want. During this time, you should also
 check out the Chapter 2: Character Creation, Section 5:
 Alignment and Path to decide which 'side' you wish to be on.
 Note: Neutral might be the safe pick, but means the sense
 alignment power in combat is largely useless. You may over
 time opt to alter this through roleplay and should consult a
 GM if this occurs. Path helps us to determine how you see
 the world and what God you could worship. Note: Like being
 Neutral, being Pathless means that you're not interested or
 don't believe, which means you can not worship without first
 getting your path altered through roleplay over time and
 consulting a GM.
5) - Find a GM/AGM/RW listed under Game Staff and
 Online. Make sure you get in contact with a GM prior to
 sending them your information. Ask them if they're available
 to RollWatch for you. A GM may allow you to roll in whispers
 if they're engaged IC or in an Event. When they say it is ok,
 they will ask you for the following: Player Name / Character
 Name / Race / Racial Class (if applicable) / Alignment / Path /
 School / Unique 1 / Unique 2 / Unique 3 / Developmental
 Make sure it's in that format for the roster. Please have all of
 that ready before you ask. Also please provide a link to your
 character sheet they can view. (Shareable) Depending on how
 deep into the restart it is or if everyone before you got good
 rolls, you may or may not be able to roll for a Dragon Ball. If
 the result is 0 or higher, you get a Dragon Ball (if we have one
 to give)!
 6) Aftermath.
 Okay so you're now on the roster. Now, you have several
 sub-steps to complete in order to bring your sheet up to a
 completed level and be able to play. "What?! There's more?"
 You ask? Yes, but it gets easier with time and levels follow a
 similar kind of progressive thought. 6a: Background - By now,
 you likely have a concept to play with and a name to go on. A
 background can be anything from one page to thirty, as
 detailled as you want or as simple as you like. By submitting
 a background, you're offering the GMs with ideas of side-plots
 that they may use characters from your past to create more
 indepth restarts. This background should also help influence
 the other aspects of your character, explain them, or
 otherwise give reason to why he or she is the way he or she
 is. Example; you've taken the Immortal Technique on a
 Namek, so you write your background as follows: Dusty has
 existed for longer than his memory recalls. No time is worth
 remembering in particular and his current strength has
 slowly been accelerating from a meaningless single digit.
 Finally, he's taken his first steps towards a respectable power
 and it's escalating rapidly from there. He'd need it. He
 clenches his sword with anger as he moves forward through
 the Human World's desert he crash landed upon. Not a
 terribly good background, but could be built upon easily
 enough. Once it's written out, ask a GM so you can submit it
 to them. They may refer you to another member of staff
 because they don't deal with backgrounds. Based on how
 much you give them to enjoy reading/work with, they will give
 you a starting boost of experience. You should also take the
 time to give your character some basic short term goals,
 followed by one or two long term goals. If your goals involve
 your history/background, don't expect a GM to run an event
 just for you. But if it can involve more people without
 centralising around a single character, it may be considered.
 XP given to you from a background should be recorded in
 your Battle Log.
 6b: Stats - Remember, you get starting distribution stats
 found under the race information.Example: "Statistics (45
 additional points, max of 15 in 1 stat)" This can be found
 above your race's starting stats. You should use these points
 before you apply anything else. Next, apply any additional
 stats your Development Unique may provide. Followed by the
 "other race" School stats, unless otherwise specifically stated.
 Remember to log every stat you add to your sheet using the
 Stat Breakdown log. This is usually what GMs will look at to
 make sure your sheet is correct. And they do look. Failure to
 keep this up-to-date may result in xp penalties and using
 combat values that do not equal your stat breakdown and
 HP/Ki mods or endurance may result in penalties or removal
 from the roster.
 6c: Powers - Some races get free powers on creation, so
 carefully read through your racial information for this
 information. Then, you pick your race's number of powers on
 creation, which will be found in your racial information. Next,
 add the powers you get from your Fighting Style and record
 the School in your Logs, along with the Powers chosen/given.
 Remember, when creating or levelling up, you may only
 spend up to half of your powers in one tree unless you
 possess a Unique that enables this rule to change. For
 example, if you start with 5 Powers - 5/2 = 2.5, rounded down
 to 2 powers per tree. Racial powers do not apply to this limit.
 When you level up however, you may only take 1 power per
 tree. So for example, you gain 3 Powers in your level up. You
 would have to pick one from three trees.
 6d: Health / Etc - Having done your powers and stats,
 you're now able to work out your Health (HP) / Ki mods if you
 haven't done so already. Races will have a listed HP / Ki Mod
 which will be a number. For example, a Dodorian has a HP
 mod of 16. Without Uniques to raise it, his or her HP would
 be calculated as: 16sSTM+60*level. You should also take the
 time to work out your Ki (similar to HP above), Endurance,
 Lifepoints (LP) amount, and your resistance. It also might be
 a good time to work out your Powerlevel - [((Current HP+
 Current Ki)x(STR+DEX+SPD)x(Current Life Points/Max
 Life Points))/10] to establish how strong you are. Level 1 Low
 characters tend to range from 8-15k. While, Mid races tend
 to vary from 10-20k. High races can be anywhere between
 10-30k. Any extras that should be tracked during a fight, such
 as Ki Shield, Final Ki Attacker Counter, Solid Aura and so on
 should also be listed and worked out in this step.
 6e: Invents - Possibly one of the most difficult steps in the
 game, some people simply ignore invents. However if you
 take the time to stop and read them, then develop them; they
 can become some of your most powerful moves - moreso
 than School invents even. To learn more about Invents, go to
 Chapter 3: Powers and Invents, Section 2: Invents. Invents,
 when made, should be recorded somewhere in your sheet.
6f: Strike / Dodge / Etc - Now may be a good time to work out
 your strike/dodge/damage rollers ready for combat.
 Remember each time your stats improve and each level up,
 you should ensure they are up to date. Remember that part of
 your Misc mods is level x 10 damage and applies to all
 damage (including Telekinetic Damage) unless misc mods
 are specifically stated not to apply. Remember to check your
 uniques / racial information for additional bonuses.
 6g: Reputation / Money - Every character begins play with
 500 Credits to make any purchases they want, be it swords or
 training equipment. Make sure to check equipment (such as
 armor) that does not have a level limit, before you purchase it.
 In addition to fights and mugging other characters, you get
 100 credits each day that passes. You should use get_restart
 or ask what time a day rolls over in order to record this
 accurately. As well as credits, you also get 1 Reputation point
 for every day that passes and should be logged in your
 Reputation log.
 6h: Final Step; Late Creation - When you roll up a
 character, a GM may remember to tell you what day you've
 created on.
 For every day you made late, you receive the following:
 1 day of Training - See Chapter 2: Character Creation,
 Section 8: Character Advancement: Training, for more
 info. You do NOT get Experience training.
 400 Experience. Alternatively, if you're remaking a
 character or it died, you can optionally take 50% of your
 last characters Experience.
 100 Credits, as if you'd taken them daily as mentioned in
 6g.
 1 Rep point, as if you'd taken them daily as mentioned in
 6g
